How to Create a User for an Existing Patient (#15)
icure/medtech-docs: sdks/how-to/how-to-create-a-user-from-a-patient.md

## Use Case Description
There may be some cases where a Doctor (Healthcare Professional) wants to invite one of his patients to the platform. 
If the Patient already exists in the platform, the MedTech SDK provides a method to automatically invite the User, 
link it to the existing Patient and then ask all the Healthcare Professionals that manage their data to share those with 
them.  
The following diagrams summarizes the operations performed by the different actors.  
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Doctor
    participant Patient
    participant MedTechSDK
    Doctor->>MedTechSDK: Creates user for Patient
    MedTechSDK->>Patient: Sends an invitation email
    Patient->>MedTechSDK: Logs in and updates credentials
    Patient->>MedTechSDK: Creates Notifications asking for data
    Doctor->>MedTechSDK: Checks for new Notifications
    MedTechSDK-->>Doctor: Provides the Notifications
    Doctor->>MedTechSDK: Shares data with Patient
```

## Use Case Implementation

:::note

For this example, we assume that your database contains at least one Healthcare Professional, one Patient and one Data 
Sample associated to them.

:::

### The Doctor Invites the Patient

> The first step in inviting a User is to create an instance of a class that implements either the `EmailMessageFactory` or the 
> `SMSMessageFactory`, depending on if you want to invite User by Email or SMS.  
> Two examples are the `ICureRegistrationEmail` and `ICureRegistrationPassword` classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in inviting a User is to create an instance of a class that implements either the 
[`EmailMessageFactory`](../references/interfaces/EmailMessageFactory) or the 
[`SMSMessageFactory`](../references/interfaces/SMSMessageFactory), depending on if you want to invite User by Email or 
SMS.  
Two examples are the [`ICureRegistrationEmail`](../references/classes/ICureRegistrationEmail) and 
[`ICureRegistrationSMS`](../references/classes/ICureRegistrationSMS) classes.
```

long-lived authentication token, and will send a Notification to all the Healthcare Professionals that have a delegation 
for the Patient to ask access to their data.

### The Doctor Receives the Notification and Gives Back Access

Once the Notification is sent, on the Doctor side you can use the MedTech SDK to filter his Notifications and get the one related to 
the new User.

<!-- file://code-samples/how-to/create-user-for-patient/index.mts snippet:doctor gets pending notifications-->
```typescript
const newNotifications = await api.notificationApi.getPendingNotifications()
const patientNotification = newNotifications.filter(
  (notification) =>
    notification.type === NotificationTypeEnum.NEW_USER_OWN_DATA_ACCESS &&
    notification.responsible === patient.id,
)[0]
```

Then, you can change the status of the Notification to signal that the operation is being taken care of.

<!-- file://code-samples/how-to/create-user-for-patient/index.mts snippet:notification set ongoing-->
```typescript
const ongoingStatusUpdate = await api.notificationApi.updateNotificationStatus(
  patientNotification,
  'ongoing',
)

> ```

Reviewer: Is it necessary to update the notification status to ongoing? What happens if I don't?

Author: It is not strictly necessary, but it helps categorizing the notifications

To allow the new User to access all their own data, you can use the `giveAccessToAllDataOf` method.

<!-- file://code-samples/how-to/create-user-for-patient/index.mts snippet:data sharing-->
```typescript
const sharedData = await api.patientApi.giveAccessToAllDataOf(patient.id)
```

If the method runs successfully, it will return a report of all the shared objects:
<details>
    <summary>Output</summary>

```typescript
{
  patient: "YOUR_PATIENT_OBJECT",
  statuses: {
    dataSamples: { success: true, error: null, modified: 1 },
    healthcareElements: { success: true, error: null, modified: 0 },
    patient: { success: true, error: null, modified: 0 }
  }
}

```

</details>

Finally, you can update the Notification status again to signal that the operation was completed successfully.

<!-- file://code-samples/how-to/create-user-for-patient/index.mts snippet:completed status-->
```typescript
const completedStatusUpdate = await api.notificationApi.updateNotificationStatus(
  ongoingStatusUpdate,
  'completed',
)

> ```

Reviewer: How come the notifications are not marked as completed automatically?

Author: To avoid creating a dependency between the services. Also there could be different types of notifications, so in my opinion it does make sense to separate the notification management and the operations needed to complete a notification, especially if they will be modified in the future.
